trainer: Update Runtime Guide and Deprecation Policy (#4167)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/components/trainer/operator-guides/runtime.md

| torch-distributed     | [PyTorch](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html)    |
| deepspeed-distributed | [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/)                        |
| mlx-distributed       | [MLX](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html) |

The following runtimes are supported for TorchTune BuiltinTrainer:

| Runtime Name          | Pre-trained LLM |
| --------------------- | --------------- |
| torchtune-llama3.2-1b | Llama 3.2 (1B)  |
| torchtune-llama3.2-3b | Llama 3.2 (3B)  |

### Runtime Deprecation Policy

Since ML frameworks naturally evolve over time, Kubeflow community may decide to deprecate
certain supported ClusterTrainingRuntimes. To avoid breaking existing users, we follow a deprecation
policy for Runtimes that are slated to be removed.

A supported ClusterTrainingRuntime may be marked as deprecated and is eligible for removal starting
from **two minor releases** after its deprecation.

To ensure users are aware of Runtime deprecations, the following measures are taken:

- Kubeflow Trainer release notes include the deprecation as a breaking change.
- The ClusterTrainingRuntime YAML is updated with a deprecation comment.

> - If a deprecated Runtime is created, Kubeflow Trainer validation webhook prints a warning.

Reviewer: What's the meaning of creating deprecated Runtimes? Isn't it installed by default since it's officially supported by Kubeflow Trainer?

Reviewer 2: I think using webhook warnings is a great idea. Maybe we could add a link to https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/#admission-webhooks to give more details on what they are and why it's a good solution.

Reviewer 3: how to identify the deprecated runtimes during admission webhooks? resource name?
I think we should not restrict the runtime usage even after we remove the deprecated runtimes in the trainer repository. We should allow users to manually manage by themselves,

Reviewer 2: I imagine we can relax the constraint to allow some level of mutation, like adding annotations?

Author: >how to identify the deprecated runtimes during admission webhooks? resource name?

Yes, this is what I initially thought of, but do you think that maintaining label/annotation is better ?
```
trainer.kubeflow.org/deprecated: true
```

>But, the TrainingRuntime resource is immutable object

TrainingRuntime is immutable only when it is in-used by TrainJob (e.g. like how we add finalizer to the Runtime when TrainJob is running).
We should allow users to update the TrainingRuntime images when they update the KF Trainer control plane.

Reviewer 3: Making TrainingRuntime mutable might cause the unhandling Pod updates. So, for now, we can have only deprecation notice in relase note and documentation.

After we introduced the revision mechanism, we can provide the automatic warning mechanism based on annotations.

Author: Can you explain what unhandled Pod updates it can introduce if we only allow to update runtime that is unused by any TrainJob ?

Author: @astefanutti I don't understand what do you mean by preventing Pod updates ?
From my understanding if ClusterTrainingRuntime is unused (e.g. doesn't have any running TrainJob), we should allow users to update it.

Author: Make sense @astefanutti. I think, we discussed with @tenzen-y before that we should design the revision policy, so users can always see the original runtime (e.g. template) that was used to submit TrainJob.
I think, we can come up with the implementation later.

Author: @astefanutti I see, however it might be tricky.
I imagine that when we release the newer version of Kubeflow Trainer, we publish newer version for all supported runtimes, for example:
```
kubeflow/trainer/deepspeed-runtime:v2.1.0
kubeflow/trainer/deepspeed-runtime:v2.2.0
```

And if we decide to deprecate DeepSpeed runtime in v2.2 version, and apply the deprecation label:
```
trainer.kubeflow.org/deprecated: "true"
```

Users have to update the image as well.

Does it make sense ?

Reviewer 2: @andreyvelich yes that makes sense, though this raises the question of the versioning of the runtimes w.r.t. the trainer / operator. I'd imagine the runtimes to be versioned independently based on the content of the runtimes as these are less coupled with the trainer itself. But I see that it makes things a bit more difficult to manage.

Reviewer 3: For unused CTR labels and annotations propagation, I don't disagree with that.
I wanted to mention about used CTRs.

Author: @astefanutti @tenzen-y In any case, do we have any other blockers for this PR which explains the initial deprecation policy.

- If a TrainJob references a deprecated Runtime, the validation webhook also prints a warning.
- The Kubeflow SDK prints a warning when a deprecated Runtime is listed or referenced.

## Next Steps

> - Learn how to configure [gang scheduling for TrainJobs](/docs/components/trainer/operator-guides/gang-scheduling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to configure [gang scheduling for Training Runtimes](/docs/components/trainer/operator-guides/gang-scheduling).
```

Maybe what you mean is `Training Runtime`

| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| torch-distributed     | [PyTorch](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/index.html)    |
| deepspeed-distributed | [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/)                        |
| mlx-distributed       | [MLX](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html) |

The following runtimes are supported for TorchTune BuiltinTrainer:

| Runtime Name          | Pre-trained LLM |
| --------------------- | --------------- |
| torchtune-llama3.2-1b | Llama 3.2 (1B)  |
| torchtune-llama3.2-3b | Llama 3.2 (3B)  |

### Runtime Deprecation Policy

As ML frameworks evolve over time, the Kubeflow community may decide to deprecate
certain supported ClusterTrainingRuntimes. To avoid breaking existing users, we follow a deprecation
policy before removing any Runtime.

A supported ClusterTrainingRuntime may be marked as deprecated and is eligible for removal starting
from **two minor releases** after its deprecation.

These measures are taken to inform users about Runtime deprecation:

- Add the following label to the deprecated Runtime:

  ```yaml
  trainer.kubeflow.org/deprecated: "true"

>   ```

Author: @astefanutti @tenzen-y I introduced the deprecated label to the runtimes.
Does it look good ?
